1. INTRODUCTION

This project provides Lua bindings for the OpenSSL libcrypto libraries. 
libcrypto provides digest functions, such as MD5, SHA-1, and HMAC; cipher
functions, such as RC5 and Blowfish; public key crypto, such as RSA and
Diffie-Hellman; and some other assorted tools (i.e. random number generation).

Currently only the digest functions are mapped by this Lua binding.

http://luacrypto.luaforge.net/
  by Keith Howe <nezroy@luaforge.net>

2. REQUIREMENTS

 - Lua 5.1 - http://www.lua.org/

   luacrypto requires Lua 5.1 since it uses the new Lua package system.
   It should also work with Compat-5.1, though you will have to update the
   build and libraries in order to support this.

 - libcrypto 0.9.7+ - http://www.openssl.org/

   luacrypto has only been built against and tested with OpenSSL versions
   0.9.7 and above. It depends on additional API methods introduced in 0.9.7.

2. INSTALLATION

Edit the Makefile and set the following fields to the correct values for your
environment:

 LUAINC: The location of your Lua 5.1 include headers. This is required to
   build the code.

 LUA_PATH: The installation path for your system independent Lua files.
 LUA_CPATH: The installation path for your system dependent Lua files. These
   two settings are required to install the libraries properly.
 
 LUA_TYPE: Set this to the type of Lua libraries you would like to install;
   either "lc" for precompiled Lua libraries (using luac), or "lua" for
   regular text Lua libraries.
 
 LUA: The location of your Lua 5.1 interpreter; only needed to run the tests
   and to generate the luadoc.
 LUAC: The location of your Lua 5.1 compiler; only needed to build the
   precompiled Lua libraries.

 LDFLAGS: On most systems, the default value will be fine. However, if your
   OpenSSL libcrypto library is not in the standard library paths, you may
   need to point this at your OpenSSL install.
 
 CFLAGS: On most systems, the default value will be fine. However, if your
   OpenSSL libcrypto headers are not in the standard include paths, you may
   need to point this at your OpenSSL install.

Once configured, run "make" to build the libraries. This will also build the
documentation using luadoc if you have set the location of your Lua
interpreter. Run "make install" to install the libraries in the correct
location. The install will run a test suite if you have set the location of
your Lua interpreter. You can run the tests independently with "make tests",
but you cannot run the tests until after you have run "make install".

3. CREDITS

Much of this code was heavily inspired by and/or lifted directly from the
lmd5 project (http://luaforge.net/projects/lmd5/), written by
Luiz Henrique de Figueiredo <lhf@tecgraf.puc-rio.br>.

